# Using Github Packages - Container Registry

Reference [Github's documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/packages/working-with-a-github-packages-registry/working-with-the-container-registry) as needed.


## Pipeline Build and Publish Core Images
We now have a GHA pipeline to build and publish these base images to the GHCR.

#### On Pull Requests
[build_images](../.github/workflows/build_images.yml) - runs on Pull Requests to test the image build only.

#### On Merge to Main
[build_and_publish_images](../.github/workflows/build_and_publish_images.yml) - runs on Merge to Main. This workflow will build and publish the images to Github Container Registry (GHCR).

> **NOTE** The `build_and_publish_images` workflow is also scheduled to run weekly every Sunday at 5 AM to help keep the base images up-to-date with the latest security patches and such.

#### Core Image tagging
We now add a unique tag to each published set of images that are included in the `build_and_publish_images` workflow.
Tagging is using github builtin property `github.run_attempt` and appended to the image tag.

Example image with new tag format: `ghcr.io/cfpb/regtech/sbl/python-alpine:3.12_xx`

This will allow applications to pin to specific builds in the event a new change is introduced to latest that doesn't play nice with the application.
The standard build image tag is still available to support apps pinning to the latest.

### Test package
We build and push a duplicate alpine test package during the `build_image` workflow that runs on PR. This is to assure proper permission are available before we merge code changes to main and build and publish all the images.

That package is named `regtech/sbl/test:do_not_use`. It is set to private and thus not available to public.
It is not immutable, so each workflow run with build and push the same tag. This is for GHA to GHCR access testing only.

> ***Note*** `GITHIB_TOKEN` is autogenerated by GHA during each workflow execution and use to access the container registry. Due to limitations on this token, the workflow is not able to delete the test package. [Reference](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/packages/packages?apiVersion=2022-11-28#delete-a-package-for-an-organization). Even with GHA having admin to the package, since packages live at the ORG level, Github requires ORG level admin permissions to delete a package. Since `GITHUB_TOKEN` is generated and use for workflow run only, it's not possible (or desirable) to grant this access at the ORG level.
> If it's important to delete this test package, we would need to create a dedicated user PAT, grant Org Admin level and use it in the workflow step to delete the package.

### Immutable Packages
[Publish immutable action reference](https://github.com/actions/publish-immutable-action/pkgs/container/publish-immutable-action)
[Immutable Actions reference](https://github.com/features/preview/immutable-actions)

> ***Note*** This ↑ is `Public Preview` as of `12/26/24`

### Image Tagging
We now publish 3 tagged versions of each core image during in the GHA workflow for all main branch merges.
They are as follows

- *image_name*:vMAJ.MIN.PATCH
- *image_name*:vMAJ.MIN.PATCH_*unique_build*
- *image_name*:latest

---

## Local Machine build and push core images (old depracated method)

#### Authenticating with GHCR

Generate a classic PAT token with the `read:packages`, `write:packages`, and `delete:packages` permissions.

```bash
export CR_PAT=TOKEN

$ echo $CR_PAT | docker login ghcr.io -u USERNAME --password-stdin
> Login Succeeded
```

#### Build and push to GCR

```bash
$ docker build -t ghcr.io/cfpb/regtech/sbl/alpine:3.18 -f Dockerfile-alpine .
$ docker push ghcr.io/cfpb/regtech/sbl/alpine:3.18
```

